i shall be free
a brief survey of my military background
after being drafted in the united states
army i was further
drafted so to speak into the operation
of the national security agency
which has responsibilities in the area
of protecting security of classified
communications
my duties in that area which included
a period of time of two extensions
voluntarily of my active duty time in
the military
and two voluntary tours of duty in
vietnam
was in the area primarily
of protection of the security of codes
up to our top secret codes and the code
systems
the cryptographic equipment with which
these were operated on
until four days prior to my release from
active duty honorably after serving the
second tour of duty in vietnam
i relinquished my top secret security
clearance was debriefed
this is in february 4th 1969
their thereafter i was an engineer at
the boeing company and the designer
builder of nightclubs
i had no contact with radicals
politically i was a democratic
liberal my first contact with the
federal bureau of investigation
was april 18 1970 where largely by
chance
i was able to spot an individual named
chip marshall
who was a federal fugitive wanted and
two
counts of inciting to cross interstate
line
rather crossing interstate lines to
incite to riot
and inciting to riot and causing
destruction of government property in
excess of a hundred dollars
i was causative his arrest
of that there was there was very
very good proof there's police officer
testimony at the time
from the seattle area the testimony
could be brought forward
the tavern manager and of one patron in
the tavern itself
it has not been denied however so
perhaps it's not relevant
on april 27 1970
after a series of
discourses with agent lewis harris of
the seattle office of the fbi
i became an undercover informant for the
fbi
in seattle area i two areas of
responsibility
one to exploit a contact i had with a
member of the seattle eight
defense to infiltrate that defense
to attempt to penetrate it and the other
broad assignment was to penetrate
bombing conspiracies for that
for the first purpose i was to become a
political radical over a period of
months
i did so became more and more radical in
my beliefs and opinions under the
direction
of special agent lewis harris
i began to advocate at his request
violent solutions
to political problems in order to gain
credibility
as a first political radical and then as
a revolutionary
finally on september 27th
having succeeded by a series of actions
some of them
criminal some of them
federal felonies as a matter of fact
that i had committed including inciting
to riot on may 6 1970
and other federal and local felonies
of a non-violent nature i
gained sufficient credibility as a
as a revolutionary or radical to
penetrate
directly into the defense offices of the
seattle eight
in a two-week period i was able to
rifle defense files take witness
statements review them
clandestinely and not so clandestinely
overhear client attorney communications
regarding strategy and tactics of the
defense
i was able to clandestinely overhear
client attorney conversations
in the longview bombing case in the
mayday 8 case
my reporting to special agent bert
carter
on october 12th has been acknowledged by
u.s attorney stan pitkin who on may 25th
of this year acknowledged to the press
that i had in fact been an undercover
informant for the fbi
code name tj had dead letter drop
secret code in the event that i was in
danger
so forth the other paraphernalia of
espionage
it was with with some difficulty
that over a period of months that i was
able to gain
some credibility as a radical
i utilized techniques in my defense
of quickly making suggestions of a great
variety of helpful types
some of them legal some of them illegal
and working for lewis harris
i attempted to involve members of the
seattle eight defense
in criminal acts including obstruction
of justice
etcetera from
in months of october november 1970
i was involved in finding individuals
who would be willing or who could be
talked into committing a bombing
this is at the request of special agent
bert carter
over a period of two months
approximately
with a police officer in the seattle
area who was
who has confirmed this to attorneys to
john kepner of the new york times paul
jacob of national education television
a police officer acted as an
intermediary between special agent bert
carter and myself
throughout the series of discussions my
purpose
was protection of myself in the event
something went wrong
i did not intend to be left out in the
cold in a bombing
on april 2nd this year
i i executed the first affidavit
and began the first act of surfacing
this is after i'd quit and approximately
the fifth day of december last year
after bert carter had sent instructions
that the individual who was actually
to place the bomb in this conspiracy
that that individual was to be killed in
a booby-trapped explosion
i could not go along with felony murder
on april 2nd after a great deal of
reflection of my personal future
and the reasons that i felt
that people had a reasonable reason to
know
i executed an affidavit in the offices
of jeffrey steinborn a seattle attorney
in the mayday eight case
immediately that afternoon he had a
conference with u.s attorney stan pitkin
as a result of which it was agreed that
i would keep quiet
that i would not make the affidavit
public that steinborn would do the same
and the u.s attorney would do the same
on april 8
1971 federal district judge william h
goodwin dismissed at the request of the
government
12 federal felony indictments the
destruction of government property
and in conspiracy to ins to incite that
whatever the technical charge is against
eight individuals known as the eight
as the mayday eight who had been
indicted
for destruction of the air force rotc
annex
at the university of washington campus
may 1st 1970.
at that point
i began with that basis to make
an attempt to bring into court
my allegations so that they could be
proven or disproven in federal court of
law
that has been resisted by a variety of
means by the federal government
and its representatives
on november 2nd there has been scheduled
in district court
in tacoma washington an evidence you're
hearing
all right in the longview bombing case
in which
i have confessed and i tend to under out
confess
conspiracy to obstruct justice at the
behest of fbi special agents
in the case of longview bombing
defendant james elwin green
and others four of the in five indicted
defendants in that case have previously
pleaded guilty
will you conclude by telling us very
briefly about jeff desmond's case that i
think you're familiar with
i know that i am something of a cop gas
presence in this assemblage of scholars
but my case is not isolated
on the 10th of july this year i
convinced
jeff desmond to come forward and discuss
hicks
activities as an undercover informant
for the fbi
on july 12 this year in the presence of
defense counsel jeff desmond
executed an affidavit confessing to two
unsolved bombings in the seattle area
was he uh was he an fbi agent then he he
was not an fbi informant
his activity had previously ceased
it had ceased because of the fact that
in one of those bombings he was caught
in the act
march 3rd 1970 at the u.s post office in
seattle washington
jeff desmond along with three
co-conspirators who he had
by his own admission lured to the site
with him for that act was arrested by
seattle police officers
within two hours that night jeff desmond
was released on personal recognizance
the other individuals held
twenty five thousand dollar bond all
charges were dropped
very quietly very quickly against jeff
desmond
he never acted as a state's witness he
never acted as a witness of any sort for
the government in that
and yet all charges were very quietly
dropped he has confessed to another
completely unsolved bombing
february 20th at the university of
washington
i have approached local law enforcement
agencies of every variety in the seattle
area with the exact particulars
the explosive manufacturer names etc
exactly how the bomb was built
one of the two bombs that he sat at the
university of washington by the way was
unexploded
and so it was there as physical evidence
he has been able to perfectly describe
it
there have been no actions taken